Hello everybody and welcome to this tutorial. So, today we're gonna talk a
little bit more about
input and basically
not import but output
and formatting the
output. So let's go
ahead and take a look
at a few new concepts
that were gonna go
over. First of all, you
have oh where's my
mouse? There is. No
there's this new thing on
Macs were you move your mouse and
apparently it enlarges so if you in case
you lose your mouse
pointer to screen, you
can actually find
it, I never thought
I would ever need that but here was a
moment where that would have been
useful. Anyway let's
go ahead and use STD
colon colon, cout
and let's use our
insertion operator
and type in 2000 and
pretty sure its sixteen
yes it is sixteen
It is because it says
in the bottom right
the corner. So,
anyway let's go ahead
and continue. We're
gonna open up quote
marks, press space,
here, type is today's
year and we're gonna put
a dot there, and we're
gonna say again we're going
to use the insertion
operator again and
type STD colon colon
endl now endl means
end line, it adds a
new line after the
output why do we do
this? Well, have a
look and look at this
but we're just gonna go ahead and copied
his part. I'm really lazy typer so
everything that I can
like copy out like
basically just copy
it and reuse it for
my own code but maybe
not the best of
practices for you at
the very beginning.
So, this is today's
month I'm pretty sure
it is not today's
month in fact I am
actually certain now that I look at the
date down below but in my notes it is
today's month.
Ok, never gonna do
this again and type
in std, colon colon,
endl and we need a
semicolon at the end
here and a semicolon
at the end here, these
are line terminators
and type in std, colon
colon just type in
cout, I want to get
a full date out of
this so uncertain what day is it today?
sixteen apparently it's 16 I'm very bad with
time and date etc, I pretty much
have no concept of time or anything like
that
never understood it really.
Again we shold
type in the insertion
operator here, std
endl. So, if we print
this out, each one
of these lines will
go into a new line,
which might seem very
natural to you, but
let me show you
something, so if I run it
build it and run it to see everything, it has
2016 is today's year, 3 is today's month and 16th is
today's date. However,
if I did not have
endl at the end of
every line, so we can
just comment about I'll explain the comments in a moment
well not here just place a line
terminator here and // last year
can do the same thing
here just place
line ending here
and // last year
Ok, so now let's run
the program, what
is this? 2016 is
today's year, third is
today's month and 16
is today's day. So,
the endl at the
bottom doesn't really
matter but the other ones do, why?
Well, it doesn't matter that all these
things are in different lines the
computer doesn't care in fact it
couldn't care less unless you tell it to
actually print something in the new line
everything's gonna get printed in the
very same line
the last endl here, the last endl, it
pretty much just serves to tell you that
whatever comes afterwards
shall be printed
in today in the new
line, it's pretty much it.
Ok, so let's remove this.
Keep that in mind
the computer doesn't
care how you order
the computer cares what you tell it and how how you tell it to ordered
things, how you tell
it to order things
around. So let's take
a look at another
example so there are various
modes and methods of formatting this can
take a look at it on the net as well and
you can ask questions in the course
itself in the discussion
section there's
always somebody from
the tech support to
provide answers for you there but, in
general you can do stuff like this
you see, it says here see out and
then we can insert something here
std, colon colon, setw. And we can setw to be 5
positions and let's
go ahead and put
those five positions
in each one of
these so CTR+C oh actually need to
insertion operator here so we are
going to effectively
copy this in order
to reuse the code,
space and down here as well
space. There we go. So, it says here
setw it needs to, this first
the 2016 in total is going to occupy
five positions so you're gonna see one
space here in front
here you're gonna
see four spaces in
front and here again
and gonna see see three spaces in front when it gets printed out onto the screen so
let's go ahead and press
CTRL+S to save it
and then let's build and run it.
It seems
to be a problem here in this line, well
no big deal
of course now you see
this is a typical
error that people
get the forget to
I don't know, include a certain
library we're gonna go
ahead and include it. Oh
I've forgotten it but it's
a it's actually
good things but if
what you might say.
So if you forget
something it doesn't matter it's gonna
tell you it says error down here in the
console place it's kind
of dificult to see
it down here but try
to read these areas
try to read it where
it says it says is
not a member of STD
ok well, probably
because we didn't include the library up
here oh I oh we will get to the
debugging part where I will go to the
debugging process will be explained in
great detail what you need to look for,
how you need to read it, how you need to
read the areas, etc, what
something means, what the, where the air
so most likely to
be found, what sort
of errors can you expect, etc.
So we
will we will deal with that in a
completely separate section but for the
time being, you want to pay a little bit attention down there, I will of
course and largest when we get to that
section type in i/o
so input-output
manipulate and if we
press CTRL+S and if
we run this again
you see it's going to
work without any problems
or whatsoever, so all
that we needed to do
was include a library
and you can see it says
one space, one position
2016, so 2016 is
four digits and set with was 5.
12345 one more
time 12345 you see
everything is formatted in
that fashion hopefully get the idea
there are many more ways of formatting
this, in fact the ways
of formatting text
output are infinite
there is no end to
that, you can manipulated
in so many ways
it's hilarious but
this is just a basic
example as we get
into more and more
complex up so we're
just going over some basic things
as we move along. So,
I'm gonna go ahead
and bid you farewell
here and then
we're going to go
ahead and continue In
the follow up tutorial
of this chapter.